Hey guys welcome to the first actual doing something lecture of the course.
We're going to throw you into your first shot at modeling something if you're not sure where your skills
lie with regards to modeling or you're just rusty consider the next lectures a warm up that you can
just follow along with through the next five lectures.
We'll take this first model and we'll slowly expand it in complexity modeling really is a learn by doing
skill and that's how we intend to teach this course.
So with that let's try a classic but deceptively simple example the lemonade stand.
For those of you that didn't grow up in heartland America lemonade stands are the quintessential business
you as a child might have attempted to conquer one hot weekend afternoon.
And why not.
It's relatively simple laminate is something that only needs a handful of ingredients it takes no specialized
skills to make.
It's fairly straightforward.
And as a bonus it doesn't have the same stigma as its toxic brother in law could.
Oh no.
So the first thing in any modeling job that we suggest you do is is it pulled out a fresh Excel sheet.
Is it signed up for a pro subscription of error table.
No not just add it's actually just to sit down and try to think of and list out all of the things that
you know might be involved in the business.
Once you have everything written out you can cross off the things you don't find relevant.
You can add in the elements you find necessary later on and then you can hone in on each individual
item to then start the process of building out the model.
So what's involved in a lemonade stand.
Remember you're just selling easy mix.
Eliminate juice at a table primarily to people that are walking by.
Let's start off with the simple stuff the product.
What goes into the product what goes into each actual cup of liquid profit.
Well we have no one water that thing your doctor says you need to drink more of.
Number two we have sugar because how else are you going to make an all natural drink unhealthy.
The number three we have lemons.
Yes you could opt instead for the more cost conscious lemon drink in which case we would just swap out
the lemons for a cancer packet of lemon flavoring.
But we're just going to keep it simple for now.
The way Mother Nature intended minus the gallon of extra sugar.
So those are the three main ingredients.
What else goes into a lemonade.
Anything we can think of.
Well most likely you'll want to include ice if you ever tried lemonade warm.
You know it's really not the same thing.
OK.
So we got lemons sugar water and ice.
I mean we are ready to rumble.
No we need to now think about how we're going to make the product.
What do you think we would need to make and serve the actual drink.
Most likely we need to have a lemon juicer.
Yes you could outsource the live in squeezing to your younger brother but we're obviously trying to
build this into a multibillion dollar unicorn.
So that's just not scalable.
How many brothers do you have.
What else can we think of anything else.
Well we'll probably need a pitcher and some cups.
OK.
Now we have a way of delivering the product.
But remember this is a store front enterprise.
So we probably have some fixed costs associated with getting up and running.
We probably need a table maybe a chair an umbrella so you can keep the product moderately cool.
And if you decide to hire later on you can meet the mandatory labor conditions standards so that's a
plus.
That reminds me you'll probably do well with a cooler as well so you can store the supplies in any of
the other premade drinks.
Anything else you can think of.
How about a sign to get attention and inform people that you're not just sitting there loitering staring
at traffic for no reason.
Last thing I can think of is probably a cashbox to store your sales.
OK.
Now our list of things we just need got larger.
We can make the product.
We can how is the product.
We can establish a store front.
And we have a way of pulling off some rudimentary advertising.
The next thing that's worth pondering and mapping out is the business model itself.
Business model as a refresher is just how you make money in a given business.
Well in this case we're not selling online subscriptions the lemonade.
We're selling the actual thing to people that walk by.
Since my customers are the passer by.
Is it safe to assume that all of them are going to buy from me.
Well no it's reasonable to think that a hearty portion will probably not.
In fact some will just walk right past you and some will at least go to your table before snubbing you.
So we're probably going to need to keep track of things like how many customers walk by how many stopped
by your table and then how many people at the end of this all this whole thing do they actually buys.
All right.
So we've effectively mapped out the basic form of eliminate stand.
Nothing groundbreaking yet.
Sure you probably knew most of that over the next set of lectures.
We'll address what happens when we expand our product line and what happens when we try to expand in
general next lecture.
We'll tackle a crucial concept worth understanding unit economics.
All right.
See you then.